Former astronaut Ellen Ochoa says that although she doesn’t have a definite idea of when it might happen, she _______ that humans will someday need to be able to live in other environments than those found on Earth. This conjecture informs her interest in future research missions to the moon. 
Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? 
A) demands 
B) speculates 
C) doubts 
D) establishes


Beginning in the 1950s, Navajo Nation legislator Annie Dodge Wauneka continuously worked to promote public health; this _______ effort involved traveling throughout the vast Navajo homeland and writing a medical dictionary for speakers of Diné bizaad, the Navajo language. 
Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? 
A) impartial 
B) offhand 
C) persistent 
D) mandatory


Following the principles of community-based participatory research, tribal nations and research institutions are equal partners in health studies conducted on reservations. A collaboration between the Crow Tribe and Montana State University _______ this model: tribal citizens worked alongside scientists to design the methodology and continue to assist in data collection. 
Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? 
A) circumvents 
B) eclipses 
C) fabricates 
D) exemplifies


The parasitic dodder plant increases its reproductive success by flowering at the same time as the host plant it has latched onto. In 2020, Jianqiang Wu and his colleagues determined that the tiny dodder achieves this _______ with its host by absorbing and utilizing a protein the host produces when it is about to flower. 
Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? 
A) synchronization 
B) hibernation 
C) prediction 
D) moderation 


Given that the conditions in binary star systems should make planetary formation nearly impossible, it’s not surprising that the existence of planets in such systems has lacked _______ explanation. Roman Rafikov and Kedron Silsbee shed light on the subject when they used modeling to determine a complex set of factors that could support planets’ development. 
Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase?
A) a discernible 
B) a straightforward 
C) an inconclusive 
D) an unbiased 


Seminole/Muscogee director Sterlin Harjo _______ television’s tendency to situate Native characters in the distant past: this rejection is evident in his series Reservation Dogs, which revolves around teenagers who dress in contemporary styles and whose dialogue is laced with current slang. 
Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? 
A) repudiates 
B) proclaims 
C) foretells 
D) recants 


In 2007, computer scientist Luis von Ahn was working on converting printed books into a digital format. He found that some words were distorted enough that digital scanners couldn’t recognize them, but most humans could easily read them. Based on that finding, von Ahn invented a simple security test to keep automated “bots” out of websites. The first version of the reCAPTCHA test asked users to type one known word and one of the many words scanners couldn’t recognize. Correct answers proved the users were humans and added data to the book-digitizing project. 
Which choice best states the main purpose of the text? 
A) To discuss von Ahn’s invention of reCAPTCHA 
B) To explain how digital scanners work 
C) To call attention to von Ahn’s book-digitizing project 
D) To indicate how popular reCAPTCHA is 


Born in 1891 to a Quechua-speaking family in the Andes Mountains of Peru, Martín Chambi is today considered to be one of the most renowned figures of Latin American photography. In a paper for an art history class, a student claims that Chambi’s photographs have considerable ethnographic value—in his work, Chambi was able to capture diverse elements of Peruvian society, representing his subjects with both dignity and authenticity. 
Which finding, if true, would most directly support the student’s claim? 
A) Chambi took many commissioned portraits of wealthy Peruvians, but he also produced hundreds of images carefully documenting the peoples, sites, and customs of Indigenous communities of the Andes.
B) Chambi’s photographs demonstrate a high level of technical skill, as seen in his strategic use of illumination to create dramatic light and shadow contrasts. 
C) During his lifetime, Chambi was known and celebrated both within and outside his native Peru, as his work was published in places like Argentina, Spain, and Mexico. 
D) Some of the peoples and places Chambi photographed had long been popular subjects for Peruvian photographers. 


The following text is adapted from Edith Nesbit’s 1906 novel The Railway Children. 
Mother did not spend all her time in paying dull [visits] to dull ladies, and sitting dully at home waiting for dull ladies to pay [visits] to her. She was almost always there, ready to play with the children, and read to them, and help them to do their home-lessons. Besides this she used to write stories for them while they were at school, and read them aloud after tea, and she always made up funny pieces of poetry for their birthdays and for other great occasions. 
According to the text, what is true about Mother? 
A) She wishes that more ladies would visit her. 
B) Birthdays are her favorite special occasion. 
C) She creates stories and poems for her children. 
D) Reading to her children is her favorite activity. 


Herbivorous sauropod dinosaurs could grow more than 100 feet long and weigh up to 80 tons, and some researchers have attributed the evolution of sauropods to such massive sizes to increased plant production resulting from high levels of atmospheric carbon dioxide during the Mesozoic era. However, there is no evidence of significant spikes in carbon dioxide levels coinciding with relevant periods in sauropod evolution, such as when the first large sauropods appeared, when several sauropod lineages underwent further evolution toward gigantism, or when sauropods reached their maximum known sizes, suggesting that _______ 
Which choice most logically completes the text? 
A) fluctuations in atmospheric carbon dioxide affected different sauropod lineages differently. 
B) the evolution of larger body sizes in sauropods did not depend on increased atmospheric carbon dioxide. 
C) atmospheric carbon dioxide was higher when the largest known sauropods lived than it was when the first sauropods appeared. 
D) sauropods probably would not have evolved to such immense sizes if atmospheric carbon dioxide had been even slightly higher. 


In the mountains of Brazil, Barbacenia tomentosa and Barbacenia macrantha—two plants in the Velloziaceae family—establish themselves on soilless, nutrient-poor patches of quartzite rock. Plant ecologists Anna Abrahão and Patricia de Britto Costa used microscopic analysis to determine that the roots of B. tomentosa and B. macrantha, which grow directly into the quartzite, have clusters of fine hairs near the root tip; further analysis indicated that these hairs secrete both malic and citric acids. The researchers hypothesize that the plants depend on dissolving underlying rock with these acids, as the process not only creates channels for continued growth but also releases phosphates that provide the vital nutrient phosphorus. 
Which finding, if true, would most directly support the researchers’ hypothesis? 
A) Other species in the Velloziaceae family are found in terrains with more soil but have root structures similar to those of B. tomentosa and B. macrantha. 
B) Though B. tomentosa and B. macrantha both secrete citric and malic acids, each species produces the acids in different proportions. 
C) The roots of B. tomentosa and B. macrantha carve new entry points into rocks even when cracks in the surface are readily available. 
D) B. tomentosa and B. macrantha thrive even when transferred to the surfaces of rocks that do not contain phosphates. 

In documents called judicial opinions, judges explain the reasoning behind their legal rulings, and in those explanations they sometimes cite and discuss historical and contemporary philosophers. Legal scholar and philosopher Anita L. Allen argues that while judges are naturally inclined to mention philosophers whose views align with their own positions, the strongest judicial opinions consider and rebut potential objections; discussing philosophers whose views conflict with judges’ views could therefore _______ 
Which choice most logically completes the text? 
A) allow judges to craft judicial opinions without needing to consult philosophical works. 
B) help judges improve the arguments they put forward in their judicial opinions. 
C) make judicial opinions more comprehensible to readers without legal or philosophical training. 
D) bring judicial opinions in line with views that are broadly held among philosophers. 

For painter Jacob Lawrence, being _______ was an important part of the artistic process. Because he paid close attention to all the details of his Harlem neighborhood, Lawrence’s artwork captured nuances in the beauty and vitality of the Black experience during the Harlem Renaissance and the Great Migration. 
Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? 
A) skeptical 
B) observant 
C) critical 
D) confident  


Mônica Lopes-Ferreira and others at Brazil’s Butantan Institute are studying the freshwater stingray species Potamotrygon rex to determine whether biological characteristics such as the rays’ age and sex have _______ effect on the toxicity of their venom—that is, to see if differences in these traits are associated with considerable variations in venom potency. 
Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? 
A) a disconcerting 
B) an acceptable 
C) an imperceptible 
D) a substantial


Researchers have struggled to pinpoint specific causes for hiccups, which happen when a person’s diaphragm contracts _______ . However, neuroscientist Kimberley Whitehead has found that these uncontrollable contractions may play an important role in helping infants regulate their breathing. 
Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? 
A) involuntarily 
B) beneficially 
C) strenuously 
D) smoothly  


Critics have asserted that fine art and fashion rarely _______ in a world where artists create timeless works for exhibition and designers periodically produce new styles for the public to buy. Luiseño/ Shoshone-Bannock beadwork artist and designer Jamie Okuma challenges this view: her work can be seen in the Metropolitan Museum of Art and purchased through her online boutique. 
Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? 
A) prevail 
B) succumb 
C) diverge 
D) intersect  


Scholarly discussions of gender in Shakespeare’s comedies often celebrate the rebellion of the playwright’s characters against the rigid expectations _______ by Elizabethan society. Most of the comedies end in marriage, with characters returning to their socially dictated gender roles after previously defying them, but there are some notable exceptions. 
Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? 
A) interjected 
B) committed 
C) illustrated 
D) prescribed 


In studying the use of external stimuli to reduce the itching sensation caused by an allergic histamine response, Louise Ward and colleagues found that while harmless applications of vibration or warming can provide a temporary distraction, such _______ stimuli actually offer less relief than a stimulus that seems less benign, like a mild electric shock. 
Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? 
A) deceptive 
B) innocuous
C) novel 
D) impractical

The province of Xoconochco was situated on the Pacific coast, hundreds of kilometers southeast of Tenochtitlan, the capital of the Aztec Empire. Because Xoconochco’s location within the empire was so _______ , cacao and other trade goods produced there could reach the capital only after a long overland journey. 
Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? 
A) unobtrusive 
B) concealed 
C) approximate 
D) peripheral 


The following text is from Charlotte Brontë’s 1847 novel Jane Eyre. Jane works as a governess at Thornfield Hall. 
I went on with my day’s business tranquilly; but ever and anon vague suggestions kept wandering across my brain of reasons why I should quit Thornfield; and I kept involuntarily framing advertisements and pondering conjectures about new situations: these thoughts I did not think to check; they might germinate and bear fruit if they could. 
Which choice best states the main purpose of the text? 
A) To convey a contrast between Jane’s outward calmness and internal restlessness 
B) To emphasize Jane’s loyalty to the people she works for at Thornfield Hall 
C) To demonstrate that Jane finds her situation both challenging and deeply fulfilling 
D) To describe Jane’s determination to secure employment outside of Thornfield Hall

The following text is adapted from Lewis Carroll’s 1889 satirical novel Sylvie and Bruno. A crowd has gathered outside a room belonging to the Warden, an official who reports to the Lord Chancellor. 
One man, who was more excited than the rest, flung his hat high into the air, and shouted (as well as I could make out) “Who roar for the Sub-Warden?” Everybody roared, but whether it was for the Sub-Warden, or not, did not clearly appear: some were shouting “Bread!” and some “Taxes!”, but no one seemed to know what it was they really wanted. All this I saw from the open window of the Warden’s breakfast-saloon, looking across the shoulder of the Lord Chancellor. “What can it all mean?” he kept repeating to himself. “I never heard such shouting before—and at this time of the morning, too! And with such unanimity!” 
Based on the text, how does the Lord Chancellor respond to the crowd? 
A) He asks about the meaning of the crowd’s shouting, even though he claims to know what the crowd wants. 
B) He indicates a desire to speak to the crowd, even though the crowd has asked to speak to the Sub-Warden. 
C) He expresses sympathy for the crowd’s demands, even though the crowd’s shouting annoys him. 
D) He describes the crowd as being united, even though the crowd clearly appears otherwise. 


O Pioneers! is a 1913 novel by Willa Cather. In the novel, Cather portrays Alexandra Bergson as having a deep emotional connection to her natural surroundings: _______ 
Which quotation from O Pioneers! most effectively illustrates the claim? 
A) “She had never known before how much the country meant to her. The chirping of the insects down in the long grass had been like the sweetest music. She had felt as if her heart were hiding down there, somewhere, with the quail and the plover and all the little wild things that crooned or buzzed in the sun. Under the long shaggy ridges, she felt the future stirring.” 
B) “Alexandra talked to the men about their crops and to the women about their poultry. She spent a whole day with one young farmer who had been away at school, and who was experimenting with a new kind of clover hay. She learned a great deal.” 
C) “Alexandra drove off alone. The rattle of her wagon was lost in the howling of the wind, but her lantern, held firmly between her feet, made a moving point of light along the highway, going deeper and deeper into the dark country.”
D) “It was Alexandra who read the papers and followed the markets, and who learned by the mistakes of their neighbors. It was Alexandra who could always tell about what it had cost to fatten each steer, and who could guess the weight of a hog before it went on the scales closer than John Bergson [her father] himself.”


Psychologists Dacher Keltner and Jonathan Haidt have argued that experiencing awe—a sensation of reverence and wonder typically brought on by perceiving something grand or powerful—can enable us to feel more connected to others and thereby inspire us to act more altruistically. Keltner, along with Paul K. Piff, Pia Dietze, and colleagues, claims to have found evidence for this effect in a recent study where participants were asked to either gaze up at exceptionally tall trees in a nearby grove (reported to be a universally awe-inspiring experience) or stare at the exterior of a nearby, nondescript building. After one minute, an experimenter deliberately spilled a box of pens nearby. 
Which finding from the researchers’ study, if true, would most strongly support their claim? 
A) Participants who had been looking at the trees helped the experimenter pick up significantly more pens than did participants who had been looking at the building. 
B) Participants who helped the experimenter pick up the pens used a greater number of positive words to describe the trees and the building in a postexperiment survey than did participants who did not help the experimenter. 
C) Participants who did not help the experimenter pick up the pens were significantly more likely to report having experienced a feeling of awe, regardless of whether they looked at the building or the trees. 
D) Participants who had been looking at the building were significantly more likely to notice that the experimenter had dropped the pens than were participants who had been looking at the trees. 


Many archaeologists will tell you that categorizing excavated fragments of pottery by style, period, and what objects they belong to relies not only on standard criteria, but also on instinct developed over years of practice. In a recent study, however, researchers trained a deep-learning computer model on thousands of images of pottery fragments and found that it could categorize them as accurately as a team of expert archaeologists. Some archaeologists have expressed concern that they might be replaced by such computer models, but the researchers claim that outcome is highly unlikely. 
Which finding, if true, would most directly support the researchers’ claim? 
A) In the researchers’ study, the model was able to categorize the pottery fragments much more quickly than the archaeologists could. 
B) In the researchers’ study, neither the model nor the archaeologists were able to accurately categorize all the pottery fragments that were presented. 
C) A survey of archaeologists showed that categorizing pottery fragments limits the amount of time they can dedicate to other important tasks that only human experts can do. 
D) A survey of archaeologists showed that few of them received dedicated training in how to properly categorize pottery fragments. 

Although military veterans make up a small proportion of the total population of the United States, they occupy a significantly higher proportion of the jobs in the civilian government. One possible explanation for this disproportionate representation is that military service familiarizes people with certain organizational structures that are also reflected in the civilian government bureaucracy, and this familiarity thus _______ 
Which choice most logically completes the text? 
A) makes civilian government jobs especially appealing to military veterans. 
B) alters the typical relationship between military service and subsequent career preferences. 
C) encourages nonveterans applying for civilian government jobs to consider military service instead. 
D) increases the number of civilian government jobs that require some amount of military experience to perform.


Birds of many species ingest foods containing carotenoids, pigmented molecules that are converted into feather coloration. Coloration tends to be especially saturated in male birds’ feathers, and because carotenoids also confer health benefits, the deeply saturated colors generally serve to communicate what is known as an honest signal of a bird’s overall fitness to potential mates. However, ornithologist Allison J. Shultz and others have found that males in several species of the tanager genus Ramphocelus use microstructures in their feathers to manipulate light, creating the appearance of deeper saturation without the birds necessarily having to maintain a carotenoid-rich diet. These findings suggest that _______ 
Which choice most logically completes the text? 
A) individual male tanagers can engage in honest signaling without relying on carotenoid consumption. 
B) feather microstructures may be less effective than deeply saturated feathers for signaling overall fitness. 
C) scientists have yet to determine why tanagers have a preference for mates with colorful appearances. 
D) a male tanager’s appearance may function as a dishonest signal of the individual’s overall fitness.  


Utah is home to Pando, a colony of about 47,000 quaking aspen trees that all share a single root system. Pando is one of the largest single organisms by mass on Earth, but ecologists are worried that its growth is declining in part because of grazing by animals. The ecologists say that strong fences could prevent deer from eating young trees and help Pando start thriving again.
According to the text, why are ecologists worried about Pando?
A) It isn’t growing at the same rate it used to.
B) It isn’t producing young trees anymore.
C) It can’t grow into new areas because it is blocked by fences.
D) Its root system can’t support many more new trees.

Although many transposons, DNA sequences that move within an organism’s genome through shuffling or duplication, have become corrupted and inactive over time, those from the long interspersed nuclear elements (LINE) family appear to remain active in the genomes of some species. In humans, they are functionally important within the hippocampus, a brain structure that supports complex cognitive processes. When the results of molecular analysis of two species of octopus—an animal known for its intelligence—were announced in 2022, the confirmation of a LINE transposon in Octopus vulgaris and Octopus bimaculoides genomes prompted researchers to hypothesize that that transposon family is tied to a species’ capacity for advanced cognition.
Which finding, if true, would most directly support the researchers’ hypothesis?
A) The LINE transposon in O. vulgaris and O. bimaculoides genomes is active in an octopus brain structure that functions similarly to the human hippocampus.
B) The human genome contains multiple transposons from the LINE family that are all primarily active in the hippocampus.
C) A consistent number of copies of LINE transposons is present across the genomes of most octopus species, with few known corruptions.
D) O. vulgaris and O. bimaculoides have smaller brains than humans do relative to body size, but their genomes contain sequences from a wider variety of transposon families.


To understand how temperature change affects microorganism-mediated cycling of soil nutrients in alpine ecosystems, Eva Kaštovská et al. collected plant-soil cores in the Tatra Mountains at elevations around 2,100 meters and transplanted them to elevations of 1,700–1,800 meters, where the mean air temperature was warmer by 2°C. Microorganism-mediated nutrient cycling was accelerated in the transplanted cores; crucially, microorganism community composition was unchanged, allowing Kaštovská et al. to attribute the acceleration to temperature-induced increases in microorganism activity. 
It can most reasonably be inferred from the text that the finding about the microorganism community composition was important for which reason?
A) It provided preliminary evidence that microorganism-mediated nutrient cycling was accelerated in the transplanted cores. 
B) It suggested that temperature-induced changes in microorganism activity may be occurring at increasingly high elevations. 
C) It ruled out a potential alternative explanation for the acceleration in microorganism-mediated nutrient cycling. 
D) It clarified that microorganism activity levels in the plant-soil cores varied depending on which microorganisms comprised the community. 


The following text is from Jane Austen’s 1811 novel Sense and Sensibility. Elinor lives with her younger sisters and her mother, Mrs. Dashwood.
Elinor, this eldest daughter, whose advice was so effectual, possessed a strength of understanding, and coolness of judgment, which qualified her, though only nineteen, to be the counsellor of her mother, and enabled her frequently to counteract, to the advantage of them all, that eagerness of mind in Mrs. Dashwood which must generally have led to imprudence. She had an excellent heart;—her disposition was affectionate, and her feelings were strong; but she knew how to govern them: it was a knowledge which her mother had yet to learn; and which one of her sisters had resolved never to be taught.
According to the text, what is true about Elinor?
A) Elinor often argues with her mother but fails to change her mind.
B) Elinor can be overly sensitive with regard to family matters.
C) Elinor thinks her mother is a bad role model.
D) Elinor is remarkably mature for her age.


Biologists have predicted that birds’ feather structures vary with habitat temperature, but this hadn’t been tested in mountain environments. Ornithologist Sahas Barve studied feathers from 249 songbird species inhabiting different elevations—and thus experiencing different temperatures—in the Himalaya Mountains. He found that feathers of high-elevation species not only have a greater proportion of warming downy sections to flat and smooth sections than do feathers of low-elevation species, but high-elevation species’ feathers also tend to be longer, providing a thicker layer of insulation.
Which choice best states the main idea of the text?
A) Barve’s investigation shows that some species of Himalayan songbirds have evolved feathers that better regulate body temperature than do the feathers of other species, contradicting previous predictions.
B) Barve found an association between habitat temperature and feather structure among Himalayan songbirds, lending new support to a general prediction.
C) Barve discovered that songbirds have adapted to their environment by growing feathers without flat and smooth sections, complicating an earlier hypothesis.
D) The results of Barve’s study suggest that the ability of birds to withstand cold temperatures is determined more strongly by feather length than feather structure, challenging an established belief.


The practice of logging (cutting down trees for commercial and other uses) is often thought to be at odds with forest conservation (the work of preserving forests). However, a massive study in forest management and preservation spanning 700,000 hectares in Oregon’s Malheur National Forest calls that view into question. So far, results of the study suggest that forest plots that have undergone limited logging (the careful removal of a controlled number of trees) may be more robust than plots that haven’t been logged at all. These results, in turn, suggest that ______
Which choice most logically completes the text?
A) logging may be useful for maintaining healthy forests, provided it is limited.
B) other forest management strategies are more effective than limited logging.
C) as time passes, it will be difficult to know whether limited logging has any benefits.
D) the best way to support forest health may be to leave large forests entirely untouched.


When fashion designer Lloyd Henri Kiva New opened his store in Scottsdale, Arizona, in 1945, he quickly became known for creating delicately crafted leather goods, like belts and hats. He was perhaps most renowned for his colorful handbags, which he made by hand using a long and painstaking process. As he gained more customers, New began using sewing machines and other tools to help him produce bags more efficiently, though he continued to handcraft the crucial details that made each bag unique.
Based on the text, what would have been the most likely consequence if New had not begun using sewing machines?
A) He would have been unable to ensure that each bag included unique, handcrafted details.
B) He would have struggled to meet the increasing demand for his bags.
C) He would have had to individually design each bag he produced.
D) He would not have been able to generate as much interest in his bags.


Researchers recently found that disruptions to an enjoyable experience, like a short series of advertisements during a television show, often increase viewers’ reported enjoyment. Suspecting that disruptions to an unpleasant experience would have the opposite effect, the researchers had participants listen to construction noise for 30 minutes and anticipated that those whose listening experience was frequently interrupted with short breaks of silence would thus ______
Which choice most logically completes the text?
A) find the disruptions more irritating as time went on. 
B) rate the listening experience as more negative than those whose listening experience was uninterrupted.
C) rate the experience of listening to construction noise as lasting for less time than it actually lasted.
D) perceive the volume of the construction noise as growing softer over time.


“Loon Point” is a 1912 poem by Amy Lowell. In the poem, which presents a nighttime scene on a body of water, Lowell describes an element of nature as an active participant in the experience, writing, ______
Which quotation from “Loon Point” most effectively illustrates the claim?
A) “Through the water the moon writes her legends / In light, on the smooth, wet sand.”
B) “Softly the water ripples / Against the canoe’s curving side.”
C) “Or like the snow-white petals / Which drop from an overblown rose.”
D) “But the moon in her wayward beauty / Is ever and always the same.”


Paleontologists searching for signs of ancient life have found many fossilized specimens of prehistoric human ancestors, including several from the Pleistocene era discovered in a geological formation in the Minatogawa quarry in Japan. However, to study the emergence of the earliest multicellular organisms to appear on Earth, researchers must turn elsewhere, such as to the Ediacaran geological formation at Mistaken Point in Canada. A UNESCO World Heritage Site, the 146-hectare reserve contains more than 10,000 fossils that together document a critical moment in evolutionary history.
What does the text indicate about the geological formation at Mistaken Point? 
A) It holds a greater number of fossils but from a smaller variety of species than the formation in the Minatogawa quarry does.
B) It has provided evidence that the earliest human species may have emerged before the Pleistocene era.
C) It is widely considered by paleontologists to be the most valuable source of information about prehistoric life forms.
D) It contains specimens from an older time period than those found in the formation in the Minatogawa quarry.


In a study by Mika R. Moran, Daniel A. Rodriguez, and colleagues, residents of Quito, Ecuador, and Lima, Peru, were surveyed about parks in their cities. Of the 618 respondents from Quito, 82.9% indicated that they use the city’s parks, and of the 663 respondents from Lima, 72.7% indicated using city parks. Given that the percentage of Quito respondents who reported living within a 10-minute walk of a park was much lower than that reported by Lima respondents, greater proximity alone can’t explain the difference in park use.
The text makes which point about the difference between the proportions of Quito residents and Lima residents using parks?
A) It was much larger than the researchers conducting the study expected.
B) It is caused by something other than the parks’ proximity to city residents.
C) It could be due to inaccuracies in the survey results.
D) It was calculated using sources that predate the survey. 


The following text is adapted from Johanna Spyri’s 1881 novel Heidi (translated by Elisabeth Stork in 1915). Eight-year-old Heidi and her friend’s grandmother are looking at some illustrated books.
Heidi had come and was looking with wondering eyes at the splendid pictures in the large books, that Grandmama was showing her. Suddenly she screamed aloud, for there on the picture she saw a peaceful flock grazing on a green pasture. In the middle a shepherd was standing, leaning on his crook. The setting sun was shedding a golden light over everything. With glowing eyes Heidi devoured the scene.
Which choice best states the main idea of the text?
A) Heidi is upset until she sees a serene image of a pasture in one of Grandmama’s books.
B) Heidi is delighted and fascinated by an image she sees in one of Grandmama’s books.
C) Heidi is initially frightened by an image in one of Grandmama’s books but quickly comes to appreciate its beauty.
D) Heidi is inspecting an image in one of Grandmama’s books because she has never seen a shepherd with his sheep before.


Many of William Shakespeare’s tragedies address broad themes that still appeal to today’s audiences. For instance, Romeo and Juliet, which is set in the Italy of Shakespeare’s time, tackles the themes of parents versus children and love versus hate, and the play continues to be read and produced widely around the world. But understanding Shakespeare’s so-called history plays can require a knowledge of several centuries of English history. Consequently, ______
Which choice most logically completes the text?
A) many theatergoers and readers today are likely to find Shakespeare’s history plays less engaging than the tragedies.
B) some of Shakespeare’s tragedies are more relevant to today’s audiences than twentieth-century plays.
C) Romeo and Juliet is the most thematically accessible of all Shakespeare’s tragedies.
D) experts in English history tend to prefer Shakespeare’s history plays to his other works.


The following text is adapted from Edgar Allan Poe’s 1849 story “Landor’s Cottage.”
During a pedestrian trip last summer, through one or two of the river counties of New York, I found myself, as the day declined, somewhat embarrassed about the road I was pursuing. The land undulated very remarkably; and my path, for the last hour, had wound about and about so confusedly, in its effort to keep in the valleys, that I no longer knew in what direction lay the sweet village of B——, where I had determined to stop for the night.
Which choice best states the main idea of the text?
A) The narrator remembers a trip he took and admits to getting lost.
B) The narrator recalls fond memories of a journey that he took through some beautiful river counties.
C) The narrator describes what he saw during a long trip through a frequently visited location.
D) The narrator explains the difficulties he encountered on a trip and how he overcame them.


A contraction of “you all,” the pronoun “y’all” has long been used as a plural version of “you” in the South and in Black communities around the US. In recent decades, most other English-speaking communities in the US have begun to use “y’all.” What explains its rise in popularity? Many varieties of English have no pronoun that specifically addresses more than one person and instead must use “you” to address both one person and more than one. But “y’all” always refers to two or more people. As a result, it conveys the speaker’s meaning more precisely than “you” can.
Which question does the text most directly attempt to answer?
A) How many other plural versions of the pronoun “you” are there in English, besides “y’all”?
B) Why has the pronoun “y’all” become more widely used in the US?
C) When was the first recorded use of the pronoun “y’all” in the English language?
D) Is “y’all” commonly used in English-speaking regions of the world besides the US?


A student is examining a long, challenging poem that was initially published in a quarterly journal without explanatory notes, then later republished in a stand-alone volume containing only that poem and accompanying explanatory notes written by the poet. The student asserts that the explanatory notes were included in the republication primarily as a marketing device to help sell the stand-alone volume.
Which statement, if true, would most directly support the student’s claim?
A) The text of the poem as published in the quarterly journal is not identical to the text of the poem published in the stand-alone volume.
B) Many critics believe that the poet’s explanatory notes remove certain ambiguities of the poem and make it less interesting as a result.
C) The publishers of the stand-alone volume requested the explanatory notes from the poet in order to make the book attractive to readers who already had a copy of the poem in a journal issue.
D) Correspondence between the poet and the publisher reveals that the poet’s explanatory notes went through several drafts.


In 1934 physicist Eugene Wigner posited the existence of a crystal consisting entirely of electrons in a honeycomb-like structure. The so-called Wigner crystal remained largely conjecture, however, until Feng Wang and colleagues announced in 2021 that they had captured an image of one. The researchers trapped electrons between two semiconductors and then cooled the apparatus, causing the electrons to settle into a crystalline structure. By inserting an ultrathin sheet of graphene above the crystal, the researchers obtained an impression—the first visual confirmation of the Wigner crystal.
Which choice best states the main idea of the text?
A) Researchers have obtained the most definitive evidence to date of the existence of the Wigner crystal.
B) Researchers have identified an innovative new method for working with unusual crystalline structures.
C) Graphene is the most important of the components required to capture an image of a Wigner crystal.
D) It’s difficult to acquire an image of a Wigner crystal because of the crystal’s honeycomb structure.


Some businesses believe that when employees are interrupted while doing their work, they experience a decrease in energy and productivity. However, a team led by Harshad Puranik, who studies management, has found that interruptions by colleagues can have a social component that increases employees’ sense of belonging, resulting in greater job satisfaction that benefits employees and employers. Therefore, businesses should recognize that ______
Which choice most logically completes the text?
A) the interpersonal benefits of some interruptions in the workplace may offset the perceived negative effects.
B) in order to maximize productivity, employers should be willing to interrupt employees frequently throughout the day.
C) most employees avoid interrupting colleagues because they don’t appreciate being interrupted themselves.
D) in order to cultivate an ideal workplace environment, interruptions of work should be discouraged.


Paleontologist Alan Tennyson and colleagues studied fossil bones found in New Zealand that are more than 55 million years old. The researchers determined that the fossil bones belonged to two previously unknown species of prehistoric penguins. Moreover, they estimated that one of the two penguin species was more than three times the size of the emperor penguin, which is the largest penguin species that exists today.
Based on the text, which choice best describes the two previously unknown penguin species?
A) They are frequently studied by paleontologists.
B) They are no longer living species.
C) They were smaller than penguin species that exist today.
D) They spent little of their lives in water.


In superfluorescence, electrical charges known as dipoles emit light in synchronized bursts so intense that they are visible to the eye. Until recently, this phenomenon has only been observed at extremely cold temperatures because dipoles cannot synchronize at higher temperatures. But in a study, Melike Biliroglu and colleagues observed superfluorescence at room temperature in thin films made of perovskite and other similarly crystalline materials; the researchers propose that the formation of shock-absorbing quasiparticles called polarons in the material protects dipoles from thermal interference.
Based on the text, how are polarons believed to be involved in the superfluorescence observed in Biliroglu and colleagues’ study?
A) Polarons enable superfluorescent bursts to cross from one crystalline material to another.
B) Polarons allow for the dipoles to synchronize despite higher temperatures. 
C) Polarons accelerate the dipoles’ release of superfluorescent bursts.
D) Polarons decrease the intensity of the superfluorescent burst.


Scholars have noted that F. Scott Fitzgerald’s writings were likely influenced in part by his marriage to Zelda Fitzgerald, but many don’t recognize Zelda as a writer in her own right. Indeed, Zelda authored several works herself, such as the novel Save Me the Waltz and numerous short stories. Thus, those who primarily view Zelda as an inspiration for F. Scott’s writings ______
Which choice most logically completes the text?
A) overlook the many other factors that motivated F. Scott to write.
B) risk misrepresenting the full range of Zelda’s contributions to literature.
C) may draw inaccurate conclusions about how F. Scott and Zelda viewed each other’s works.
D) tend to read the works of F. Scott and Zelda in an overly autobiographical light.


In their book Smart Pricing, Jagmohan Raju and Z. John Zhang consider musicians’ use of the nontraditional “pay as you wish” pricing model. This model generally offers listeners the choice to pay more or less than a suggested price for a song or album—or even to pay nothing at all. As the authors note, that’s the option most listeners chose for an album by the band Harvey Danger. Only about 1% opted to pay for the album, resulting in earnings below the band’s expectations. But the authors also discuss musician Jane Siberry, who saw significant earnings from her “pay as you wish” online music store as a result of many listeners choosing to pay more than the store’s suggested prices. Hence, the “pay as you wish” model may ______
Which choice most logically completes the text?
A) prove financially successful for some musicians but disappointing for others.
B) hold greater financial appeal for bands than for individual musicians.
C) cause most musicians who use the model to lower the suggested prices of their songs and albums over time.
D) more strongly reflect differences in certain musicians’ popularity than traditional pricing models do.


The following text is adapted from Edith Nesbit’s 1906 novel The Railway Children.
Mother did not spend all her time in paying dull [visits] to dull ladies, and sitting dully at home waiting for dull ladies to pay [visits] to her. She was almost always there, ready to play with the children, and read to them, and help them to do their home-lessons. Besides this she used to write stories for them while they were at school, and read them aloud after tea, and she always made up funny pieces of poetry for their birthdays and for other great occasions.
According to the text, what is true about Mother?
A) She wishes that more ladies would visit her.
B) Birthdays are her favorite special occasion. 
C) She creates stories and poems for her children.
D) Reading to her children is her favorite activity. 


The Land of Enchantment is a 1906 travel book by Lilian Whiting. In the book, which describes the experience of traveling through the southwestern United States by train, Whiting reflects on the escape from everyday life that such a journey provides: ______
Which quotation from The Land of Enchantment most effectively illustrates the claim?
A) “The opportunities and advantages already offered and constantly increasing are greater than would at first be considered possible.”
B) “The social and the picturesque charm of the long journey is singularly enhanced by the leisurely stops made for refreshment.” 
C) “The real journey begins, of course, at Chicago, and as these trains leave in the evening the traveller fares forth in the seclusion of his berth.”
D) “One experiences a certain sense of detachment from ordinary day and daylight duties that is exhilarating.” 


After winning the 1860 presidential election, Abraham Lincoln appointed Edward Bates, Salmon P. Chase, and William H. Seward to his cabinet. Lincoln’s decision was surprising, since each of these men had run against him, but historians have praised it, noting that Lincoln ______blank his rivals’ diverse talents to strengthen his administration.
Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English?
A) has leveraged
B) is leveraging
C) will leverage
D) leveraged